# Data-Cleaning
The python code can be used to fill the data gap and generate the clean version of the time-series data.
Considering the length of data gap and the sampling frequency of each data point, three possible scenarios are identified as follows:
  1. Gaps that extend for no more than a few consecutive sampling frequencies (small gaps): In most cases these correspond to data gaps that are scattered through the dataset, which can be addressed by filling the gaps using simple linear interpolation. 
  2. Gaps that extend for one hour up to a few hours or 1 day (medium gaps): This kind of data gap lasts for a few hours can be due to the sensors’ brief blackout. However, compared with the sampling frequency, data might be variously changed during these few hours. A simple linear regression is not sufficient to capture the dynamic pattern. Therefore, we used more advanced linear interpolation, such as the K-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm. KNN is a generalization of the classic linear interpolation and is widely used in cases where relations among the dimensions of the data are complex. It imputes values using the weighted mean of the k most similar rows, weighted by their similarity. 
  3. Gaps that extend from a few hours up to several days (large gaps): This is the case when a portion of the system or sensors is paused or faulted. Since in this dataset, the large gap only occurs for a subset of measurements and not the entire set of measurements, only the missing data corresponding to impacted measurements needs to be dealt with to keep the data from the other measurements intact. Therefore, we applied a more computationally intensive method called Matrix Factorization (MF) to fill the large gap. MF was widely used to impute missing data. The algorithm is based on the assumption that different days of measurements (different rows of matrix) are generated from a shared subspace, thus the data matrix of different days can be decomposed using a common factor.

The criteria for determining the gap size is hard-coded in line 49 and line 79, respectively, in the current python code. Users can adjust the criteria value by considering the sampling frequency, research purposes and computational capabilities. The missing rate for the clean data will be reducing to zero using the current script. 
